I'm Susan page Washington bureau chief
of USA Today and this is capital
download we're on capitol hill in the
offices of Senator Tom Coburn Republican
of Oklahoma thanks so much for being
with us good to be with you President
Obama on Friday is expected to announce
the executive order on immigration what
will the Republican reaction be here
well I don't think it's so much the
Republican reaction here the country is
going to go nuts because they're going
to see it as they move outside of the
authority of the President and it's
going to be a very dangerous situation
you're going to see hopefully not but
you could see instances of anarchy what
do you mean well you could see violence
you know and this is a big step to to
not work with Congress now that he's got
a new Congress to go completely around
it and to do things that a lot of legal
debate on both sides of whether or not
he has the power to do that but what
what what our country needs now is to be
pulled together not divided further and
I think it's I think it's a terrible
political mistake to divide us now
further I agree we need to solve the
immigration problem but I think the way
you do that is force a consensus not
just my way or the highway and so the
president has said I've given you enough
time I'm not waiting anymore i'm going
to do this he's going to get challenged
in court he's probably going to lose in
court but it's going to be a couple of
years down the road but what he's going
to do is do great harm to his ability to
work with this new Congress and and he's
also going to divide the American people
if you if you look at the polling of the
American people they they want us to
solve this problem but they don't want
it solved by an executive order and and
we have enough trouble right now in our
country in the process of Congress and
not having working and now we're to
decide we're going to have an autocratic
leader that's going to disregard what
the Constitution says and make law
anyway and so we instead of the rule of
law handling
in our country today now we're starting
to have the rule of rulers and that's a
total antithesis to what this country
was founded on and so I think it's a
very dangerous move for us both in terms
of civil disobedience I think it's a
very dangerous move in terms of
confidence for the future our country
and be able to accomplish other things
that will need to be accomplished over
the next two years and so my advice they
don't ask it anymore my advice would be
don't do this get give the new Congress
a chance work and when you talk about
civil disobedience or violence I don't
understand what exactly you talk about
that youth fear might happen as a result
here's here's how people think well if
the law doesn't apply to the President
and it's not affirmative Lee acted on
for us as a group like you're seeing in
Ferguson Missouri then why should it
apply to me you came into the Senate in
the class with Barack Obama coming in
from Illinois and I understand that you
two were actually became pretty good
friends yeah I really like the guy I
mean he's a very interesting individual
I thought he was neat and I think
Michelle is a neat lady we got to know
each other during orientation we weren't
close close friends but we were
acquaintances which is pretty pretty
good for Democrat Republican I think
he's doing oh I don't think well right
now as far as the country is concerned I
don't think he's doing well love
especially internationally in terms of
the recognition I think he can do well I
think I think he has great opportunity
if he were to truly reach out to
compromise and reconcile on big problems
in front of this country and and pull
people together we'd accomplished a lot
we can we can fix the immigration we
could certainly reestablish some of our
foreign policy plans we could start
working on the real structural problems
associated with our deficit because it
requires divided government to do that
he could be a hero
and he could do that but I he's also an
ideologue and ideologues have a
difficult time compromising he has the
skills to pull us together and the
question is Willy and that if I if I
were to end in his office I'd say if you
want to be have a successful second term
dig down swallow your pride get what you
can get compromised on everything you
can for the best interest of the country
bring us back together I mean weird I
can see it we're disintegrating as a
fabric as a nation in front of my eyes
from from both generational too racial
too intellectual to financial it's
coming apart and we need two leaders
that pull us together and politics makes
it worse because we exactly we
exaggerate the differences you've been
battling cancer how are you doing yeah
and what do you plan to do once you
leave this in it I plan to hopefully be
more effective than I've been in the
Senate you know that's one of the
reasons I'm leaving I think this place
needs a lot of pressure put on it to do
the right thing I want a article 5
convention to force a balanced budget
you know what happens right now Susan is
people won't make hard choices because
they're not made to but if we had a
balanced budget amendment a politician
could go home and say yes I chose to
this is what I chose to cut because we
have a balanced budget amendment the
Constitution said we have to live within
our means and I chose to cut this now
they won't cut anything because they
don't have to and so we need that we
need term limits we need we need more
people who are not career politicians in
the business of representing us and
doesn't mean career politicians are bad
their honorable people but basically
they have very limited exposure to the
rest of the aspects of life and we need
what our founders originally intended we
need people with real experience come up
here to serve a period of time
back home and live under the laws of
they helped create senator tom coburn
thanks so much for joining us on Capitol
download